bfm business until 12:30 pm
placement the issue 100% investment
cédric decoeur guillaume sommerer we go
now conjure up the gold prices of
course in the heart of the controversy
we talk about it with jean-françois very handsome
day jean-françois hello guillaume
jean cédric you are the president of
safe points like the courses that have
decreased by 6% since January 1st
is currently at 1592 dollars an ounce
when we look at the graphical thresholds
like that we say that it will continue to
lower or on the contrary we will see a
price rebound on the short term on
left in a big bearish channel
this channel is marked by support around
of 1550 dollars and a resistance to mr
1640 dollars so these limits are
really to watch like milk on
fire
in the coming weeks, however,
like Chinese and Russian
I think that
the gold finally hold I think what he has
estimated too expensive a few months ago
should take advantage of this period of
breath recovery to return
on or consolidate and strengthen
and use support for 1550 dollars
so if how do you see them as
insurance against crises
you consider a this case your
premium costs you a little bit cheaper
right now okay okay but that
that the central bankers the banks
plants continue to buy gold
are very active quite exactly
I consider that the underpinnings
are there the central bankers the
mine extraction potential
low rates
so all that is already in place for that
the price of gold can go up
so will he go back up strongly
this year we did not totally
some if used would do
graphical analysis
right now we are in a
a pattern called the pennant and the
pennant could tell us a
recovery in the beginning of the first
semester 2014
with then we project very far but
bear and long term with the
records very very high around 2016 2017
or 2018 that's so it's still daring
to make predictions like that for
2016 2018 when we do not know what will
happen
only as compared to the analysis
graph because just now
I'm going to bounce on other things that
tell us that unfortunately the course
gold is very worked and not
to work is what you want to work
say manipulate because that's when
even the big suspicions of the moment the
American regulators are thinking about
open an investigation into a manipulation
deco exactly indeed at this moment we
has information coming in a year
of the wall street journal that reports
suspicion of manipulation of the
share of the big players
of the gold quotation so these are
several banks hsbc barclays deutsche
bank etc
and it's an American organization the
the cftc nothing to do with the
trade unionists who question but
for the moment we are wondering but
does not accuse anyone
that's the big the big paradise
wonders because this gold market
is particularly opaque
clearly it is really opaque the
volumes of exchanged are complicated to
know and it's really not going to
use the word cartel but I would say
that these banks shit years and whose
they are structured to calculate and
communicated the courses little things from
filters so for example the example the
more talking to the uninitiated while
simply the fall of 20% of the course that
we had known in October 2008 in
full stock market panic
while at the same time the physical gold
was becoming almost impossible to find
to find or at prices totally
delusional proof that people wanted
immediately 2 at the truth including
the big money makers and more recently
a poutine advisor said he
was aware that gold is
artificially low and that it is the
why he bought them
massively as well as the Chinese then
today it goes on so why
first of all you have to know that
daily are between 500 and 800
tons of gold that are traded but of
paper gold means a quarter of the
value of world production
annual
so we see that a shift we know very
although there is something that is
not good because of this the market to stay
massively short sellers for
maintain low prices that it would
unable to assume a demand for
physical counterpart by speaking true
counterparty risk has totally
totally
besides, every time
some organizations wanted
recover physically at this time
there the comex to a little smothered the sphere
and has them calmed down so it's there
had something that was wrong
so in big banks they have a
role in his possible manipulations
exactly because banks are
responsible for the gold price because
they are also the ones who those
very broadly covered the decline e by his
public debt redemption policy
so no question of valuing and gold
because it's an asset that because of
its valuation would devalue
therefore the reverse by this simple rise
all currencies sterilize in the
liquidity trap the traps to the isic
and the liquidity trap is these
famous system that allows to do
walk the billboard while
avoiding massive inflation
when we talk about manipulation often
obviously in the reduced to
who is profiting from the crime and who
do not benefit in clear that is
victim
we saw that on the euribor
Libor was not necessarily
victims is what there on the course of
gold there are some who are more but
listen clearly to the price of gold
he is worked on a daily basis by also
well
individuals from the managers of
portfolios of small banks and
big and so it's all who
today buy edf and think that
behind it is an underlying asset which is
real or certificates etc are from
all implicitly way to blur and
it's a bit like when you
buy
a container with pure marked inside
beef and that in the end you have the meat
of horse horse so see one year
we are exactly here after me
makes me a little bounce is that the
knows the Cftc had launched an investigation into
two lords manipulations around the
price of silver metal by jp morgan and
she had dropped the charges
the investigation four years later then this
which extends as well as the cftc communicates
on issues prior to
the opening of any investigation so the
translation that's what is said is
said and this morning in our opposite
morning these gentlemen bankers like
it all becomes almost too big and
that you just got caught
on the cheat of libor cashel fast
all the proofs of your packages because
we will have to come and investigate
ah yeah so as a banker near
complicit regulator this is acquiring
the has is not it's not a
update but it's that quickly
they will be calm anyway and
in their game then to ten when the
saying good here is which you have
does your job you have alain weill
hare now we will stay warm
if we put a scarecrow we do not shoot
still ferret obviously yes how
protect yourself from manipulation of
course ignored this really 30 seconds
then three keys in 30 seconds
any mother we are absolutely in
the logic of buying physical gold
that you tuna in the neck it is
in the station from somewhere etc but that
you are the owner so that
you have a certificate that indicates that
you are the owner of your gold that
means that if the institution third
was going bankrupt in any way
you will not lose your gold this is not the
case of sdf certificates and any
this paper gold which is handled between 500
and 800 tons daily and well
here are some keys to this
possible manipulation of the courses of
solid gold jean françois faure
coop point chest chair and ounce
of fine metal is at 1592 dollar this morning
the cac loses him 0 5% remains with us
in a moment the newspaper of the economy
and then we'll open the new half
time with the traders match